I'm taking a look at our new ticket route handler and the update route handler.
And between the two of these, they have pretty similar logic.
A request comes in, we do some validation, we make some changes to a ticket document, save it, and
then publish an event that's inside of update, very similar inside of New.
We do some validation.
We create a ticket document, save it, publish the event.
But you might notice a very small difference between these two route handlers, and that is the presence
of the await keyword on the publisher in each of them.
So inside of my new route handler, I have the await keyword on ticket created publisher.
But inside of update I did not place that await keyword.
This is to highlight a very interesting little issue that we might run into once our application starts
to scale up.
So let's take a look at a couple of diagrams and really understand what the presence of that awake keyword
does for us.
So here's what goes on behind the scenes inside of our ticket.
Created Handler.
So inside there, we're going to create a ticket document.
We're then going to await that ticket being saved to the database.
And because we've got that awake keyword on the ticket, save call right here, that means we're going
to essentially sit around and wait for that record to be saved to the database before we continue execution
of this function.
So after everything gets saved, then we move on to the publisher.
And because we've got the awake keyword on that publisher, we're going to wait for the event to be
published.
And that's and then eventually we're going to send a response off to the user.
Now let's start to think about what would happen if something went wrong with this event publishing
process, or for that matter, if something went wrong with saving the record to the database as well.
So because we've got the awake keyword on there, if anything goes wrong with either saving the record
to the database or publishing the event.
If we ever throw an error of any sorts from either of those lines of code, that air is going to be
caught and handled by our air handling middleware.
So the air handling middleware is going to inspect that air, come up with some likely response or good
response and send it back to the user.
The point is, if anything goes wrong, the user is going to know about it.
Let's think about what would happen inside of our update handler, which does not have the a keyword
on the publisher.
In that scenario.
Here's what would go on.
So here's the update handler.
We have some logic inside there to make an update to the ticket document.
We then await saving the ticket to the document database.
So in that scenario, once again, if anything goes wrong with saving the ticket, well, air is going
to be thrown and it will be caught by our error handling middleware.
But then right after that, we try to publish an event to Nats.
And then immediately after that, because we do not await that publish.
So immediately after we attempt to publish that event, we then send a response directly to the user.
So we can really imagine inside this update handler, this line of code runs and then essentially in
the next microsecond, we then immediately send a response back to the user.
That means that if anything goes wrong with publishing this event to Nets, we don't get any opportunity
to tell the user that some error occurred with the request.
So what starts to get really interesting, however, is whether we actually need to tell the user that
something went wrong with a published event.
If we think about this really back inside the new request handler, it might sound like a pretty obvious
thing.
Hey, let's await the event to be published so that the user knows, hey, everything went as expected.
But does a user really care about this event being published?
All we're really doing here is adding in some arbitrary latency latency to our request, as we have
to await our net's client to reach out to the that server, publish the event and get some response
that says, Hey, event published successfully.
So this really does add in some tiny bit of latency to the request.
Now, what's way more relevant than all this stuff, though?
Whether or not we await for the request or not is, well, what really happens behind the scenes if
publishing an event fails?
Let's expand on that a little bit more.
I want to show you another diagram that's going to kind of show you that this entire idea of whether
or not we await publishing the event is not super relevant because there's actually a way bigger issue
for us to start to think about.
Okay.
So here's the diagram right here.
A little bit crazy.
It is similar in nature to several we've already looked at.
So we're going to again imagine that we are thinking about some kind of banking application where we
have a transaction service and an accounts service as well.
So request is going to come in to the transaction service.
It will then be handled by some kind of route handler to create a transaction.
And we can imagine that this handler probably has some very similar logic inside of it to our ticket
creation route.
Handler request is going to come in, it's going to be validated, processed.
There's going to be some code to add a transaction to a database, presumably into some kind of transaction
collection.
And then immediately after that, we're going to attempt to emit an event.
That event will go over to that streaming server, float over to the account service and so on.
So again, I want to think about what would happen if something failed with emitting this event right
here.
How would we somehow communicate that back to the user?
What would the real impact on the application be?
So here's what we're going to imagine.
We successfully saved the transaction to the database.
And then just before we are able to emit an event describing the fact that the transaction was created,
what would happen if we lost our network connection?
Well, if we can really think about it in terms of some banking application, we would have a very critical
data integrity issue.
Think about what the user experience would be here.
A user would make a request to deposit some money.
We would then save a line item inside of some database saying that a deposit was accepted and that they
deposited $70.
So that is firmly inside the database.
But then we never emit this event describing the fact that the transaction was created, and that means
that the user's account balance never gets updated.
So on the user side, they would essentially submit some money or deposit some money, $70 in this case.
They could probably then go to some transaction summary page.
Something lists all the different withdrawals and deposits they have ever made, and we would probably
tell them that they have successfully deposited $70.
But because we never communicated this event successfully over to the account service, the user's account
balance never gets updated to plus 70.
So the user would see that they deposited $70, but their account balance would potentially still be
zero.
And as you could imagine, a user would look at this and say, What the heck is going on?
You're telling me that I deposited $70, but my account doesn't actually have $70 inside of it.
So as you can see, it's not really so much a question of, hey, how are we going to somehow tell the
user that publishing this event failed?
Or do we want to add in that extra latency to the request?
That's kind of irrelevant.
What's really relevant here is how do we somehow capture the fact that we failed entirely to emit this
event and that we've got this critical data integrity issue between our two different services?
That's the real question here.
Now we understand this kind of big problem.
Let's take a quick pause.
We're going to come back to the next video and talk about one way of solving this.